# Andre Lacquement
#### MSSA Project Part 2
---
Of the three projects that I proposed the one that I chose was an application that would be used to create invoices on-the-fly. I chose this because I have a few acquaintances and family members that are self-employed and manage all aspects of their business on their own. I have often heard complaints from them about the clutter of traditional paper invoices and the difficulty presented by most invoice creating platforms. My goal is to make something that is dummy proof and takes out all the unnecessary language and data entry fields for a simple client-owner agreement. 

Essentially the application would take the data entered by the user and copy it over to an invoice template that the user selects beforehand. The user would enter data such as goods sold, description of the goods, quantity, customer name, business name, etc. pertaining to the nature of the project. There would be a signature portion for both the buyer and the seller. All of this info would then be automatically placed on a PDF version of the invoice template that was previously selected and could then be emailed as a receipt of the transaction. 

I think the majority of this project could be built using Microsoft Visual Studio where I would be able to set up a graphical interface and program all of the data entry fields. As far as the communication between the application and the invoices being created there are several existing web connectors and services that allow this happen. However, I would like to build my own invoice templates and have those be used rather than rely on existing from quickbooks, intuit, etc. 

One of the better existing applications that I found is FreshBooks. It allows users to create invoices, track expenses, manage the time they are spending on their projects, accept payments, and make reports of a users overall projects. The mobile version has a fairly simple GUI and helps guide new users on how to use the application. 

The only thing about FreshBooks is that it is a little overwhelming and some of the features are just unnecessary for very small business owners that aren't dealing with a large volume of orders. That's why I would like to streamline my application and tailor it for users with a smaller client-base. I would like it to be just one or two pages to navigate through. Inputting the necessary data would just be done in text blocks and wouldn't look like much until the user "created" the invoice. The user would be able to preview the invoice at any time. All invoices created would be saved on the application and the user would be able to put them into folders they create such as 'Project#1' where they could place all necessary invoices related to that particular job. They could also create a text file to make notes on the projects and store it within that particular folder, and they could also upload photos of receipts to track expenses. 

To complete this project I plan to research a few other applications and compare features and decided exactly which ones I would like to implement into my own. I'm also going to see if I can find some videos pertaining to the software used for a project like this and how to link the application with a PDF. 

